---
title: Math Adder Carry nbit
layout: docs
date: 2024-01-02
categories: ["Adders and Subtractors", "simple"]
---

The `math_adder_carry_save_nbit` module described in the Verilog SystemVerilog file `rtl/common/math_adder_carry_save_nbit.sv` performs a carry-save addition operation for N-bit input operands. It is a parameterized module allowing for reusability in different contexts where N-bit-wide carry-save addition is required.

Upon executing, `sum_result` and `carry_result` will hold the 8-bit sum and carry, respectively, without considering carry propagation (i.e., they reflect the carry-save addition outputs).

## Parameters

- `N`: The width of the operands and result (default value is 4).

## Ports

- `input logic [N-1:0] i_a`: First N-bit input operand.

- `input logic [N-1:0] i_b`: Second N-bit input operand.

- `input logic [N-1:0] i_c`: N-bit input carry is a carry-forward from previous addition operations.

- `output logic [N-1:0] ow_sum`: N-bit output representing the sum of inputs; excludes carry to facilitate carry-save addition.

- `output logic [N-1:0] ow_carry`: N-bit output representing the generated carries can be used in subsequent addition stages.

## Functionality

The module uses a generate statement to synthesize hardware for each N-bit vector bit. For each bit, two operations occur:

1\. **Sum Calculation**: The output sum for each bit position `i` is generated by the XOR (`\^`) of corresponding bits from inputs `i_a`, `i_b`, and `i_c`. This results in a sum that does not consider carry propagation beyond the immediate bit.

2\. **Carry Calculation**: The saved carry for each bit position `i` is computed as the majority function, which is true if at least two of the corresponding bits from `i_a[i]`, `i_b[i]`, and `i_c[i]` are true. Logical OR (`|`) and AND (`&`) operations implement this majority detection.

### Conclusion

The `math_adder_carry_save_nbit` is an essential building block in arithmetic circuits to perform multi-bit additions where the carry propagation delay must be minimized. This module can be used within more extensive digital signal processing (DSP) systems or any arithmetic operations requiring high-speed addition with multiple operands.

---

[Return to Index](/docs/mark_down/rtl/)

---
