---
title: Shifter IFSR
layout: docs
date: 2024-01-02
categories: ["Adders and Subtractors", "simple"]
---

## Overview

The `shifter_lfsr` module implements a generic XOR-Shift Linear Feedback Shift Register (LFSR) that can be used to generate pseudo-random sequences. The module allows for specifying the width of the LFSR, the tap positions, and the ability to dynamically load a seed value.

## Parameters

- `WIDTH` (default: 8): Specifies the width of the LFSR register.
- `TAP_INDEX_WIDTH` (default: 12): Defines the width of the indices used for specifying tap positions. It determines the maximum index value for tap positions within the LFSR.
- `TAP_COUNT` (default: 4): Specifies the number of taps used for the LFSR. Taps are XOR'd positions that feedback into the LFSR to create the pseudo-random sequence.

## Inputs

- `i_clk`: The clock signal.
- `i_rst_n`: Active low reset signal.
- `i_enable`: Enable signal for the LFSR to update its value.
- `i_seed_load`: When high, the `i_seed_data` is loaded into the LFSR as the new state.
- `i_seed_data [WIDTH-1:0]`: The seed data is to be loaded into the LFSR when `i_seed_load` is asserted.
- `i_taps [TAP_COUNT*TAP_INDEX_WIDTH-1:0]`: The concatenated tap positions used for generating the LFSR feedback.

## Outputs

- `o_lfsr_out [WIDTH-1:0]`: The current value of the LFSR.
- `ow_lfsr_done`: Indicates when the LFSR has completed a full cycle and returned to its seed value.

## Functionality

- At each positive edge of `i_clk`, if `i_enable` is high, the LFSR updates its state by shifting right and injecting the feedback generated by XOR'ing the tapped bits specified in `i_taps`.
- If `i_seed_load` is asserted, the LFSR loads the value from `i_seed_data` instead of computing the next state.
- The `ow_lfsr_done` output goes high when the LFSR returns to the initial seed value, indicating that the sequence has cycled through and is repeating.

## Usage

This module can be used in applications requiring pseudo-random sequences such as scrambling data, generating test patterns, or any application requiring a repeatable but seemingly random sequence of bits. The flexibility in specifying the `WIDTH` and `TAP_COUNT` allows for creating LFSRs of different lengths and characteristics to suit various requirements.

---

## Related Modules

- [Simple LFSR](shifter_lfsr)
- [Fibonacci LFSR](shifter_lfsr_fibonacci)
- [Galois LFSR](shifter_lfsr_galois)

---

[Return to Index](/docs/mark_down/rtl/)

---
